# Markdown Output Format

This file describes the Markdown output format
generated by the *man-to-md* filter program.


## First Chapter

The first section of the output
will be generated from the input's `.TH` line, `NAME` section, and `SYNOPSIS` section.

This is the output format:

<pre><code># <i>programName</i>(<i>manSection</i>) - <i>programDescription</i>

Version <i>programVersion</i>, <i>programDate</i>

```
<i>programSyntax</i>
```</code></pre>


## Comments

* If the `--comment` option is used,
  the first output line will be a hidden comment.
* Comments in the nroff input will be removed.

Markdown does not really support comments,
we're using [this trick](https://stackoverflow.com/a/20885980) instead:

```markdown
[//]: # (This file was autogenerated from the man page with 'make README.md')
```


## Section Titles

* The document title is a top-level headline (`#`).
* All section titles (`.SH`)
  get converted to top-level headlines (`#`) as well.
* All subsection titles (`.SS`)
  get converted to third-level headlines (`###`).


## Line Breaks

* Line breaks are done by appending two spaces to the preceding line.
* Paragraph breaks are done through a simple blank like.


## Code Blocks

* If the filter program is run without the `-f` option (no formatting in code),
  code blocks will be output with four spaces indentation.
* With the `-f` option (limited formatting in code allowed),
  code blocks will be output as `<pre><code>` blocks
  with `<b>`/`<i>` HTML formatting.


## Special Characters

* Input sequences such as `\(lq` will be converted directly to their UTF-8 representation.
    * Exception: <code>\\&nbsp;</code> will be converted to `&nbsp;` (HTML entity).
* See [Commands.md](Commands.md#known-nroff-escape-sequences) for a list of recognized sequences.


## Text Formatting

* Bold text (from `.B` or `\fR`) will be formatted with `**`.
* Italic text (from `.I` or `\fI`) will be formatted with `_`.


## Lists

* Lists (`.TP`/`.IP`, end with `.P`) will be converted to simple `* ` list items.
* Multi-line list items will be indented with two spaces.
* Sub lists (`.RS`–`.RE`) will be indented with four extra spaces.
* `.TP` item titles will have two trailing spaces before the linebreak
  to force a visible linebreak between the item title and the description.


## Links

* Plain URLs won't be changed, as most Markdown viewers will automatically turn them into a link.
* Other links will be converted to <code>\[<i>title</i>](<i>url</i>)</code>.
* E-mail links will be converted to <code>\[<i>addr</i>](mailto:<i>addr</i>)</code>.


